---
created_at: 2018-05-18 21:57:48
date: 2018-05-23 20:36:31
description: MailRoute's comprehensive data protection policy defines its approach
  to GDPR compliance for processing personal data, safeguarding data subject rights,
  and implementing technical and organizational measures for data security and privacy.
draft: true
params:
  author: Unknown
summary: This article outlines MailRoute, Inc.'s Data Protection Policy Statement
  and Personal Information Management System (PIMS) to ensure compliance with the
  General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). It covers key definitions, principles,
  data subject rights, consent requirements, security measures, disclosure protocols,
  retention and disposal procedures, and data transfer rules.
tags:
- gdpr
title: GDPR Data Protection Policy Statement
---


# Data Protection Policy Statement

  1. Introduction

1.1 Background to the General Data Protection Regulation (‘GDPR’)

The General Data Protection Regulation 2016 replaces the EU Data Protection
Directive of 1995 and supersedes the laws of individual Member States that
were developed in compliance with the Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC. Its
purpose is to protect the “rights and freedoms” of natural persons (i.e.
living individuals) and to ensure that personal data is not processed without
their knowledge, and, wherever possible, that it is processed with their
consent.

1.2 Definitions used by the organisation (drawn from the GDPR)

**Material scope (Article 2)** – the GDPR applies to the processing of
personal data wholly or partly by automated means (i.e. by computer) and to
the processing other than by automated means of personal data (i.e. paper
records) that form part of a filing system or are intended to form part of a
filing system.

**Territorial scope (Article 3)** – the GDPR will apply to all controllers
that are established in the EU (European Union) who process the personal data
of data subjects, in the context of that establishment. It will also apply to
controllers or processors outside of the EU that process personal data in
order to offer goods and services, or monitor the behavior of data subjects
who are resident in the EU.

1.3 Article 4 definitions

**Establishment** – the main establishment of the controller in the EU will be
the place in which the controller makes the main decisions as to the purpose
and means of its data processing activities. The main establishment of a
controller in the EU will be its administrative centre. If a controller or
processor is based outside the EU, it will have to appoint a representative in
the jurisdiction in which the controller operates to act on behalf of the
controller and deal with supervisory authorities.

**Personal data** – any information relating to an identified or identifiable
natural person ('data subject'); an identifiable natural person is one who can
be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an
identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online
identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological,
genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that natural person.

**Special categories of personal data** – personal data revealing racial or
ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, or
trade-union membership, and the processing of genetic data, biometric data for
the purpose of uniquely identifying a natural person, data concerning health
or data concerning a natural person's sex life or sexual orientation.

**Data controller** – the natural or legal person, public authority, agency or
other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and
means of the processing of personal data; where the purposes and means of such
processing are determined by Union or Member State law, the controller or the
specific criteria for its nomination may be provided for by Union or Member
State law.

**Data subject** – any living individual who is the subject of personal data
held by an organisation.

**Processing** – any operation or set of operations which is performed on
personal data or on sets of personal data, whether or not by automated means,
such as collection, recording, organisation, structuring, storage, adaptation
or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by transmission,
dissemination or otherwise making available, alignment or combination,
restriction, erasure or destruction.

**Profiling** – is any form of automated processing of personal data intended
to evaluate certain personal aspects relating to a natural person, or to
analyse or predict that person’s performance at work, economic situation,
location, health, personal preferences, reliability, or behavior. This
definition is linked to the right of the data subject to object to profiling
and a right to be informed about the existence of profiling, of measures based
on profiling and the envisaged effects of profiling on the individual.

**Personal data breach** – a breach of security leading to the accidental, or
unlawful, destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised disclosure of, or access
to, personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed. There is an
obligation on the controller to report personal data breaches to the
supervisory authority and where the breach is likely to adversely affect the
personal data or privacy of the data subject.

**Data subject consent** \- means any freely given, specific, informed and
unambiguous indication of the data subject's wishes by which he or she, by a
statement or by a clear affirmative action, signifies agreement to the
processing of personal data.

**Child** – the GDPR defines a child as anyone under the age of 16 years old,
although this may be lowered to 13 by Member State law. The processing of
personal data of a child is only lawful if parental or custodian consent has
been obtained. The controller shall make reasonable efforts to verify in such
cases that consent is given or authorised by the holder of parental
responsibility over the child.

**Third party** – a natural or legal person, public authority, agency or body
other than the data subject, controller, processor and persons who, under the
direct authority of the controller or processor, are authorised to process
personal data.

**Filing system** – any structured set of personal data which are accessible
according to specific criteria, whether centralised, decentralised or
dispersed on a functional or geographical basis.

  2. Policy statement

2.1 The Board of Directors and management of MailRoute, Inc., located in
Manhattan Beach, California, USA are committed to compliance with all relevant
EU and Member State laws in respect of personal data, and the protection of
the “rights and freedoms” of individuals whose information MailRoute, Inc.
collects and processes in accordance with the General Data Protection
Regulation (GDPR).

2.2 Compliance with the GDPR is described by this policy and other relevant
policies such as the Information Security Policy, along with connected
processes and procedures.

2.3 The GDPR and this policy apply to all of MailRoute, Inc.’s personal data
processing functions, including those performed on customers’, clients’,
employees’, suppliers’ and partners’ personal data, and any other personal
data the organisation processes from any source.

2.4 MailRoute, Inc. has established objectives for data protection and
privacy, which are in PIMS and GDPR Objectives Record available in the Trust
and Compliance Section in support.mailroute.net.

2.5 Data Protection Officer/GDPR Owner is responsible for reviewing the
register of processing annually in the light of any changes to MailRoute,
Inc.’s activities (as determined by changes to the data inventory register and
the management review) and to any additional requirements identified by means
of data protection impact assessments. This register needs to be available on
the supervisory authority’s request.

2.6 This policy applies to all Employees/Staff and other interested parties,
including but not limited to contractors and sub-contractors, of MailRoute,
Inc. Any breach of the GDPR or this PIMS will be dealt with under MailRoute,
Inc.’s disciplinary policy and may also be a criminal offence, in which case
the matter will be reported as soon as possible to the appropriate
authorities.

2.7 Partners and any third parties working with or for MailRoute, Inc., and
who have or may have access to personal data, will be expected to have read,
understood and to comply with this policy. No third party may access personal
data held by MailRoute, Inc. without having first entered into a data
confidentiality agreement, which imposes on the third party obligations no
less onerous than those to which MailRoute, Inc. is committed, and which gives
MailRoute, Inc. the right to audit compliance with the agreement.

#### Personal information management system (PIMS)

##### Policy statement

To support compliance with the GDPR, the Board of Directors has approved and
supported the development, implementation, maintenance and continual
improvement of a documented personal information management system (‘PIMS’)
for MailRoute, Inc..

All Employees/Staff of MailRoute, Inc. and other interested parties, including
but not limited to contractors and sub-contractors, are expected to comply
with this policy and with the PIMS that implements this policy. All
Employees/Staff, and certain external parties, will receive appropriate
training. The consequences of breaching this policy are set out in MailRoute,
Inc.’s disciplinary policy and in contracts and agreements with third parties.
In determining its scope for compliance with the GDPR, MailRoute, Inc.
considers:

    * any external and internal issues that are relevant to the purpose of MailRoute, Inc. and that affect its ability to achieve the intended outcomes of its PIMS;
    * specific needs and expectations of interested parties that are relevant to the implementation of the PIMS;
    * organisational objectives and obligations;
    * the organisations acceptable level of risk; and
    * any applicable statutory, regulatory or contractual obligations. The PIMS Scope Statement may be found in the Trust and Compliance Section at support.mailroute.net.

MailRoute, Inc.’s objectives for compliance with the GDPR and a PIMS:

    * are consistent with this policy
    * are measurable
    * take into account GDPR and the results from risk assessments and risk treatments
    * are monitored (in line with Monitoring and Measurement Register)
    * are communicated (in line with Communications Procedures)
    * are updated as appropriate (in line with Continual Improvements Procedure)

MailRoute, Inc. documents those objectives in the PIMS and GDPR Objectives
Record.

In order to achieve these objectives, MailRoute, Inc. has determined: * what
will be done * what resources will be required * who will be responsible *
when it will be completed * how the results will be evaluated

  3. Responsibilities and roles under the General Data Protection Regulation

3.1 MailRoute, Inc. is a data processor under the GDPR.

3.2 Top Management and all those in managerial or supervisory roles throughout
MailRoute, Inc. are responsible for developing and encouraging good
information handling practices within MailRoute, Inc.; responsibilities are
set out in individual job descriptions.

3.3 Data Protection Officer/GDPR Owner (Data Protection Officer (DPO) Job
Description and Data Protection Job Description Responsibilities), a role
specified in the GDPR, should be a member of the senior management team, is
accountable to Board of Directors of MailRoute, Inc. for the management of
personal data within MailRoute, Inc. and for ensuring that compliance with
data protection legislation and good practice can be demonstrated. This
accountability includes:

3.3.1 development and implementation of the GDPR as required by this policy;
and

3.3.2 security and risk management in relation to compliance with the policy.

3.4 Data Protection Officer, who Board of Directors considers to be suitably
qualified and experienced, has been appointed to take responsibility for
MailRoute, Inc.’s compliance with this policy on a day-to-day basis and, in
particular, has direct responsibility for ensuring that MailRoute, Inc.
complies with the GDPR, as do Manager/Executive (generic/line)’s in respect of
data processing that takes place within their area of responsibility.

3.5 The Data Protection Officer/GDPR Owner have specific responsibilities in
respect of procedures such as the Subject Access Request Procedure and are the
first point of call for Employees/Staff or other interested parties, including
contractors and sub-contractors, seeking clarification on any aspect of data
protection compliance.

3.6 Compliance with data protection legislation is the responsibility of all
Employees/Staff or other interested parties, including contractors and sub-
contractor, of MailRoute, Inc. who process personal data.

3.7 MailRoute, Inc.’s Training Policy sets out specific training and awareness
requirements in relation to specific roles and Employees/Staff of MailRoute,
Inc. generally. 3.8 Employees/Staff or other interested, including contractors
and sub-contractor, of MailRoute, Inc. are responsible for ensuring that any
personal data about them and supplied by them to MailRoute, Inc. is accurate
and up-to-date.

  4. Data protection principles

All processing of personal data must be conducted in accordance with the data
protection principles as set out in Article 5 of the GDPR. MailRoute, Inc.’s
policies and procedures are designed to ensure compliance with the principles.

4.1 **Personal data must be processed lawfully, fairly and transparently**
Lawful – identify a lawful basis before you can process personal data. These
are often referred to as the “conditions for processing”, for example consent.

Fairly – in order for processing to be fair, the data controller has to make
certain information available to the data subjects as practicable. This
applies whether the personal data was obtained directly from the data subjects
or from other sources.

The GDPR has increased requirements about what information should be available
to data subjects, which is covered in the ‘Transparency’ requirement.

Transparently – the GDPR includes rules on giving privacy information to data
subjects in Articles 12, 13 and 14. These are detailed and specific, placing
an emphasis on making privacy notices understandable and accessible.
Information must be communicated to the data subject in an intelligible form
using clear and plain language.

MailRoute, Inc.’s Privacy Notice Procedure and the Privacy Notice can be found
in the Trust and Compliance Section at support.mailroute.net.

The specific information that must be provided to the data subject must, as a
minimum, include:

4.1.1 the identity and the contact details of the controller and, if any, of
the controller's representative;

4.1.2 the contact details of the Data Protection Officer;

4.1.3 the purposes of the processing for which the personal data are intended
as well as the legal basis for the processing;

4.1.4 the period for which the personal data will be stored;

4.1.5 the existence of the rights to request access, rectification, erasure or
to object to the processing, and the conditions (or lack of) relating to
exercising these rights, such as whether the lawfulness of previous processing
will be affected;

4.1.6 the categories of personal data concerned;

4.1.7 the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, where
applicable;

4.1.8 where applicable, that the controller intends to transfer personal data
to a recipient in a third country and the level of protection afforded to the
data;

4.1.9 any further information necessary to guarantee fair processing.

4.2 **Personal data can only be collected for specific, explicit and
legitimate purposes** Data obtained for specified purposes must not be used
for a purpose that differs from those formally notified to the supervisory
authority as part of MailRoute, Inc.’s GDPR register of processing. Privacy
Procedure sets out the relevant procedures.

4.3 **Personal data must be adequate, relevant and limited to what is
necessary for processing**

4.3.1 The Data Protection Officer/GDPR Owner is responsible for ensuring that
MailRoute, Inc. does not collect information that is not strictly necessary
for the purpose for which it is obtained (refer to DPIA Tool for the data
flow/mapping).

4.3.2 All data collection forms (electronic or paper-based), including data
collection requirements in new information systems, must be include a fair
processing statement or link to privacy statement and approved by the Data
Protection Officer / GDPR Owner.

4.3.3 The Data Protection Officer / GDPR Owner will ensure that, on an annual
basis all data collection methods are reviewed by internal audit to ensure
that collected data continues to be adequate, relevant and not excessive (Data
Protection Impact Assessment Procedure and DPIA Tool).

4.4 **Personal data must be accurate and kept up to date with every effort to
erase or rectify without delay**

4.4.1 Data that is stored by the data controller must be reviewed and updated
as necessary. No data should be kept unless it is reasonable to assume that it
is accurate.

4.4.2 The Data Protection Officer is responsible for ensuring that all staff
are trained in the importance of collecting accurate data and maintaining it.

4.4.3 It is also the responsibility of the data subject to ensure that data
held by MailRoute, Inc. is accurate and up to date. Completion of a
registration or application form by a data subject will include a statement
that the data contained therein is accurate at the date of submission.

4.4.4 Employees/Staff and other interested parties including contractors and
sub-contractors should be required to notify MailRoute, Inc. of any changes in
circumstance to enable personal records to be updated accordingly.
Instructions for updating records are contained [ ]. It is the responsibility
of MailRoute, Inc. to ensure that any notification regarding change of
circumstances is recorded and acted upon.

4.4.5 The Data Protection Officer / GDPR Owner is responsible for ensuring
that appropriate procedures and policies are in place to keep personal data
accurate and up to date, taking into account the volume of data collected, the
speed with which it might change and any other relevant factors.

4.4.6 On at least an annual basis, the Data Protection Officer / GDPR Owner
will review the retention dates of all the personal data processed by
MailRoute, Inc., by reference to the data inventory, and will identify any
data that is no longer required in the context of the registered purpose. This
data will be securely deleted/destroyed in line with the Secure Disposal of
Storage Media Procedure.

4.4.7 The Data Protection Officer / GDPR Owner is responsible for responding
to requests for rectification from data subjects within one month (Subject
Access Request Procedure). This can be extended to a further two months for
complex requests. If MailRoute, Inc. decides not to comply with the request,
the Data Protection Officer / GDPR Owner must respond to the data subject to
explain its reasoning and inform them of their right to complain to the
supervisory authority and seek judicial remedy.

4.4.8 The Data Protection Officer / GDPR Owner is responsible for making
appropriate arrangements that, where third-party organisations may have been
passed inaccurate or out-of-date personal data, to inform them that the
information is inaccurate and/or out of date and is not to be used to inform
decisions about the individuals concerned; and for passing any correction to
the personal data to the third party where this is required.

4.5 **Personal data must be kept in a form such that the data subject can be
identified only as long as is necessary for processing.**

4.5.1 Where personal data is retained beyond the processing date, it will be
minimised in order to protect the identity of the data subject in the event of
a data breach.

4.5.2 Personal data will be retained in line with the Retention of Records
Procedure and, once its retention date is passed, it must be securely
destroyed as set out in this procedure.

4.5.3 The Data Protection Officer / GDPR Owner must specifically approve any
data retention that exceeds the retention periods defined in Retention of
Records Procedure, and must ensure that the justification is clearly
identified and in line with the requirements of the data protection
legislation. This approval must be written.

4.6 Personal data must be processed in a manner that ensures the appropriate
security The Data Protection Officer / GDPR Owner will carry out a risk
assessment taking into account all the circumstances of MailRoute, Inc.’s
controlling or processing operations.

In determining appropriateness, the Data Protection Officer / GDPR Owner
should also consider the extent of possible damage or loss that might be
caused to individuals (e.g. staff or customers) if a security breach occurs,
the effect of any security breach on MailRoute, Inc. itself, and any likely
reputational damage including the possible loss of customer trust.

When assessing appropriate technical measures, the Data Protection Officer /
GDPR Owner will consider the following:

    * Password protection (User Access Management);
    * Automatic locking of idle terminals;
    * Removal of access rights for USB and other memory media (Access Controls Rules and Rights Procedure and Secure Disposal of Storage Media);
    * Virus checking software and firewalls (Wireless Notebook Computer Security Procedure);
    * Role-based access rights including those assigned to temporary staff (User Access Management);
    * Encryption of devices that leave the organisations premises such as laptops (Wireless Notebook Computer Security Procedure);
    * Security of local and wide area networks (Wireless Notebook Computer Security Procedure);
    * Privacy enhancing technologies such as pseudonymisation and anonymisation;
    * Identifying appropriate international security standards relevant to MailRoute, Inc..

When assessing appropriate organisational measures the Data Protection Officer
/ GDPR Owner will consider the following:

    * The appropriate training levels throughout MailRoute, Inc.;
    * Measures that consider the reliability of employees (such as references etc.);
    * The inclusion of data protection in employment contracts;
    * Identification of disciplinary action measures for data breaches;
    * Monitoring of staff for compliance with relevant security standards;
    * Physical access controls to electronic and paper based records;
    * Adoption of a clear desk policy;
    * Storing of paper based data in lockable fire-proof cabinets;
    * Restricting the use of portable electronic devices outside of the workplace;
    * Restricting the use of employee’s own personal devices being used in the workplace;
    * Adopting clear rules about passwords;
    * Making regular backups of personal data and storing the media off-site;
    * The imposition of contractual obligations on the importing organisations to take appropriate security measures when transferring data outside the EEA.

These controls have been selected on the basis of identified risks to personal
data, and the potential for damage or distress to individuals whose data is
being processed.

4.7 The controller must be able to demonstrate compliance with the GDPR’s
other principles (accountability)

The GDPR includes provisions that promote accountability and governance. These
complement the GDPR’s transparency requirements. The accountability principle
in Article 5(2) requires you to demonstrate that you comply with the
principles and states explicitly that this is your responsibility.

MailRoute, Inc. will demonstrate compliance with the data protection
principles by implementing data protection policies, adhering to codes of
conduct, implementing technical and organisational measures, as well as
adopting techniques such as data protection by design, DPIAs, breach
notification procedures and incident response plans.

  5. Data subjects’ rights

5.1 Data subjects have the following rights regarding data processing, and the
data that is recorded about them:

5.1.1 To make subject access requests regarding the nature of information held
and to whom it has been disclosed.

5.1.2 To prevent processing likely to cause damage or distress.

5.1.3 To prevent processing for purposes of direct marketing.

5.1.4 To be informed about the mechanics of automated decision-taking process
that will significantly affect them.

5.1.5 To not have significant decisions that will affect them taken solely by
automated process.

5.1.6 To sue for compensation if they suffer damage by any contravention of
the GDPR.

5.1.7 To take action to rectify, block, erased, including the right to be
forgotten, or destroy inaccurate data.

5.1.8 To request the supervisory authority to assess whether any provision of
the GDPR has been contravened.

5.1.9 To have personal data provided to them in a structured, commonly used
and machine-readable format, and the right to have that data transmitted to
another controller.

5.1.10 To object to any automated profiling that is occurring without consent.

5.2 MailRoute, Inc. ensures that data subjects may exercise these rights:

5.2.1 Data subjects may make data access requests as described in Subject
Access Request Procedure; this procedure also describes how MailRoute, Inc.
will ensure that its response to the data access request complies with the
requirements of the GDPR.

5.2.2 Data subjects have the right to complain to MailRoute, Inc. related to
the processing of their personal data, the handling of a request from a data
subject and appeals from a data subject on how complaints have been handled in
line with the Complaints Procedure.

  6. Consent

6.1 MailRoute, Inc. understands ‘consent’ to mean that it has been explicitly
and freely given, and a specific, informed and unambiguous indication of the
data subject’s wishes that, by statement or by a clear affirmative action,
signifies agreement to the processing of personal data relating to him or her.
The data subject can withdraw their consent at any time.

6.2 MailRoute, Inc. understands ‘consent’ to mean that the data subject has
been fully informed of the intended processing and has signified their
agreement, while in a fit state of mind to do so and without pressure being
exerted upon them. Consent obtained under duress or on the basis of misleading
information will not be a valid basis for processing.

6.3 There must be some active communication between the parties to demonstrate
active consent. Consent cannot be inferred from non-response to a
communication. The Controller must be able to demonstrate that consent was
obtained for the processing operation.

6.4 For sensitive data, explicit written consent (Consent Procedure) of data
subjects must be obtained unless an alternative legitimate basis for
processing exists.

6.5 In most instances, consent to process personal and sensitive data is
obtained routinely by MailRoute, Inc. using standard consent documents e.g.
when a new client signs a contract, or during induction for participants on
programmes.

6.6 Where MailRoute, Inc. provides online services to children, parental or
custodial authorisation must be obtained. This requirement applies to children
under the age of 16 (unless the Member State has made provision for a lower
age limit, which may be no lower than 13).

  7. Security of data

7.1 All Employees/Staff and interested parties, including contractors and sub-
contractors, are responsible for ensuring that any personal data that
MailRoute, Inc. holds and for which they are responsible, is kept securely and
is not under any conditions disclosed to any third party unless that third
party has been specifically authorised by MailRoute, Inc. to receive that
information and has entered into a confidentiality agreement.

7.2 All personal data should be accessible only to those who need to use it,
and access may only be granted in line with the Access Control Policy. All
personal data should be treated with the highest security and must be kept:

    * in a lockable room with controlled access; and/or
    * in a locked drawer or filing cabinet; and/or
    * if computerised, password protected in line with corporate requirements in the Access Control Policy; and/or
    * stored on (removable) computer media which are encrypted in line with Secure Disposal of Storage Media.

7.3 Care must be taken to ensure that PC screens and terminals are not visible
except to authorised Employees/Staff and other interested parties, including
contractors and sub-contractors, of MailRoute, Inc. All Employees/Staff and
other interested parties, including contractors and sub-contractors, are
required to enter into an Individual User Agreement before they are given
access to organisational information of any sort, which details rules on
screen time-outs.

7.4 Manual records may not be left where they can be accessed by unauthorised
personnel and may not be removed from business premises without explicit
authorisation. As soon as manual records are no longer required for day-to-day
client support, they must be removed from secure archiving.

7.5 Personal data may only be deleted or disposed of in line with the
Retention of Records Procedure. Manual records that have reached their
retention date are to be shredded and disposed of as ‘confidential waste’.
Hard drives of redundant PCs are to be removed and immediately destroyed as
required by Secure Disposal of Storage Media Procedure before disposal.

7.6 Processing of personal data ‘off-site’ presents a potentially greater risk
of loss, theft or damage to personal data. Staff must be specifically
authorised to process data off-site.

  8. Disclosure of data

8.1 MailRoute, Inc. must ensure that personal data is not disclosed to
unauthorised third parties which includes family members, friends, government
bodies, and in certain circumstances, the Police. All Employees/Staff and
other interested parties, including contractors and sub-contractors should
exercise caution when asked to disclose personal data held on another
individual to a third party and will be required to attend specific training
that enables them to deal effectively with any such risk. It is important to
bear in mind whether or not disclosure of the information is relevant to, and
necessary for, the conduct of MailRoute, Inc.’s business.

8.2 All requests to provide data for one of these reasons must be supported by
appropriate paperwork and all such disclosures must be specifically authorised
by the Data Protection Officer / GDPR Owner.

  9. Retention and disposal of data

9.1 MailRoute, Inc. shall not keep personal data in a form that permits
identification of data subjects for longer a period than is necessary, in
relation to the purpose(s) for which the data was originally collected.

9.2 MailRoute, Inc. may store data for longer periods if the personal data
will be processed solely for archiving purposes in the public interest,
scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes, subject to
the implementation of appropriate technical and organisational measures to
safeguard the rights and freedoms of the data subject.

9.3 The retention period for each category of personal data will be set out in
the Retention of Records Procedure along with the criteria used to determine
this period including any statutory obligations MailRoute, Inc. has to retain
the data.

9.4 MailRoute, Inc.’s data retention and data disposal procedures (Secure
Disposal of Storage Media Procedure) will apply in all cases.

9.5 Personal data must be disposed of securely in accordance with the sixth
principle of the GDPR – processed in an appropriate manner to maintain
security, thereby protecting the “rights and freedoms” of data subjects. Any
disposal of data will be done in accordance with the secure disposal
procedure.

  10. Data transfers

10.1 All exports of data from within the European Economic Area (EEA) to non-
European Economic Area countries (referred to in the GDPR as ‘third
countries’) are unlawful unless there is an appropriate “level of protection
for the fundamental rights of the data subjects”.

The transfer of personal data outside of the EEA is prohibited unless one or
more of the specified safeguards, or exceptions, apply:

10.1.1 An adequacy decision The European Commission can and does assess third
countries, a territory and/or specific sectors within third countries to
assess whether there is an appropriate level of protection for the rights and
freedoms of natural persons. In these instances no authorisation is required.

Countries that are members of the European Economic Area (EEA) but not of the
EU are accepted as having met the conditions for an adequacy decision.

A list of countries that currently satisfy the adequacy requirements of the
Commission are published in the Official Journal of the European Union.
http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-protection/international-
transfers/adequacy/index_en.htm

10.1.2 Privacy Shield

If MailRoute, Inc. wishes to transfer personal data from the EU to an
organisation in the United States it should check that the organisation is
signed up with the Privacy Shield framework at the U.S. Department of
Commerce. The obligation applying to companies under the Privacy Shield are
contained in the “Privacy Principles”. The US DOC is responsible for managing
and administering the Privacy Shield and ensuring that companies live up to
their commitments. In order to be able to certify, companies must have a
privacy policy in line with the Privacy Principles e.g. use, store and further
transfer the personal data according to a strong set of data protection rules
and safeguards. The protection given to the personal data applies regardless
of whether the personal data is related to an EU resident or not.
Organisations must renew their “membership” to the Privacy Shield on an annual
basis. If they do not, they can no longer receive and use personal data from
the EU under that framework.

**Assessment of adequacy by the data controller**

In making an assessment of adequacy, the UK based exporting controller should
take account of the following factors:

    * the nature of the information being transferred;
    * the country or territory of the origin, and final destination, of the information;
    * how the information will be used and for how long;
    * the laws and practices of the country of the transferee, including relevant codes of practice and international obligations; and
    * the security measures that are to be taken as regards the data in the overseas location.

10.1.3 Binding corporate rules

MailRoute, Inc. may adopt approved binding corporate rules for the transfer of
data outside the EU. This requires submission to the relevant supervisory
authority for approval of the rules that MailRoute, Inc. is seeking to rely
upon.

10.1.4 Model contract clauses

MailRoute, Inc. may adopt approved model contract clauses for the transfer of
data outside of the EEA. If MailRoute, Inc. adopts the model contract clauses
approved by the relevant supervisory authority there is an automatic
recognition of adequacy.

10.1.5 Exceptions

In the absence of an adequacy decision, Privacy Shield membership, binding
corporate rules and/or model contract clauses, a transfer of personal data to
a third country or international organisation shall only take place on one of
the following conditions:

    * the data subject has explicitly consented to the proposed transfer, after having been informed of the possible risks of such transfers for the data subject due to the absence of an adequacy decision and appropriate safeguards;
    * the transfer is necessary for the performance of a contract between the data subject and the controller or the implementation of pre-contractual measures taken at the data subject's request;
    * the transfer is necessary for the conclusion or performance of a contract concluded in the interest of the data subject between the controller and another natural or legal person;
    * the transfer is necessary for important reasons of public interest;
    * the transfer is necessary for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims; and/or
    * the transfer is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of other persons, where the data subject is physically or legally incapable of giving consent.
  11. Information asset register/data inventory

11.1 MailRoute, Inc. has established a data inventory and data flow process as
part of its approach to address risks and opportunities throughout its GDPR
compliance project. MailRoute, Inc.’s data inventory and data flow determines
(DPIA Procedure, and DPIA Tool):

    * business processes that use personal data;
    * source of personal data;
    * volume of data subjects;
    * description of each item of personal data;
    * processing activity;
    * maintains the inventory of data categories of personal data processed;
    * documents the purpose(s) for which each category of personal data is used;
    * recipients, and potential recipients, of the personal data;
    * the role of the MailRoute, Inc. throughout the data flow;
    * key systems and repositories;
    * any data transfers; and
    * all retention and disposal requirements.

11.2 MailRoute, Inc. is aware of any risks associated with the processing of
particular types of personal data.

11.2.1 MailRoute, Inc. assesses the level of risk to individuals associated
with the processing of their personal data. Data protection impact assessments
(DPIAs) (DPIA Procedure and Tool) are carried out in relation to the
processing of personal data by MailRoute, Inc., and in relation to processing
undertaken by other organisations on behalf of MailRoute, Inc..

11.2.2 MailRoute, Inc. shall manage any risks identified by the risk
assessment in order to reduce the likelihood of a non-conformance with this
policy.

11.2.3 Where a type of processing, in particular using new technologies and
taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing
is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural
persons, MailRoute, Inc. shall, prior to the processing, carry out a DPIA of
the impact of the envisaged processing operations on the protection of
personal data. A single DPIA may address a set of similar processing
operations that present similar high risks.

11.2.4 Where, as a result of a DPIA it is clear that MailRoute, Inc. is about
to commence processing of personal data that could cause damage and/or
distress to the data subjects, the decision as to whether or not MailRoute,
Inc. may proceed must be escalated for review to the Data Protection
Officer/GDPR Owner.

11.2.5 The Data Protection Officer / GDPR Owner shall, if there are
significant concerns, either as to the potential damage or distress, or the
quantity of data concerned, escalate the matter to the supervisory authority.

11.2.6 Appropriate controls will be selected and applied to reduce the level
of risk associated with processing individual data to an acceptable level, by
reference to MailRoute, Inc.’s documented risk acceptance criteria and the
requirements of the GDPR.

