---
created_at: 2016-08-19 18:32:45
date: 2024-04-11 23:19:43
description: Comprehensive FAQ covering billing and payment details for MailRoute's
  email services, including mailbox charges, payment options, invoicing, updating
  info, and cancellation process.
draft: true
params:
  author: Unknown
summary: This article provides information about billing and payment procedures for
  MailRoute's email services, including how charges are calculated, payment methods,
  invoicing, and cancellation policies.
tags: null
title: Billing FAQ's
---


**Try us for free for 30 days[here](http://mailroute.net/signup.html).**

### **How am I being charged for mailboxes?**

The best way to use MailRoute's service is to setup your mailboxes (defined as
addresses with their own login, quarantine and settings) in our system and
mark the [user list as complete](https://support.mailroute.net/hc/en-
us/articles/225877148-Completing-Your-User-List-Mailbox-Addresses-) by
checking the little box at the top.

**We do not charge for domain or mailbox aliases** — for example, my aliases
are sales@, info@, rachelp@, r.plecas@, etc.

We do charge for each mailbox belonging to a human on your domain(s), because
each is benefitting from our filtering service and 15-day Store & Forward
feature.

**If you don’t mark your mailbox list as complete, you run the risk of being
over-billed. When mail arrives for an unregistered address in our system, our
server asks your server, "Is this a legitimate address?" If it is, then that
address will be added to your account _free of charge_ for up to 30 days,
while you either confirm that it is a unique mailbox or you assign it as an
alias. **

It’s really best to input your mailbox list and mark it as complete, so that
we can protect you fully from harvest attacks and bill you correctly.

Admins, remember to check your account periodically to assign aliases as need;
those are free of charge. An alias will inherit its “parent” address’
preferences and settings.

**To complete your mailbox list,
click[here](https://support.mailroute.net/hc/en-
us/articles/225877148-Completing-Your-User-List-Mailbox-Addresses-), or use
one of these convenient methods:**

\--[LDAP Sync/ActiveDirectory](https://support.mailroute.net/hc/en-
us/articles/115000403387-ActiveDirectory-LDAP-Synchronization)

—Use our [API](https://support.mailroute.net/forums/21682281-API)

—Run our [Postini import
script](https://support.mailroute.net/entries/23018192-From-Postini)

—Upload mailboxes via a CSV file or send it to us for uploading

—Manually add your mailboxes to the interface

### **How do I pay?**

Simply request a free 30-day trial and your account will be setup. After 30
days, if you’re happy, do nothing and we’ll send you an invoice. No credit
card required at sign-up.

If you've activated a trial and want to convert to a customer, do nothing!
We'll simply send you an invoice to continue the service. If you have not
received an invoice by the end of your trial, don’t worry, your account will
remain active.

Our billing department will send you an invoice with multiple options to pay.
When the billing department applies your payment, they will send you a
statement for your records.

Payment Options: Credit Cards (Visa, MasterCard, American Express and
Discover), Checks, e-Check, Wire Transfers, ACH.

**1)** Quick Pay: Click 'View Invoice' and then the ' **Pay Invoice** ' button
to enter payment information

(credit card or echeck/bank transfer) and keep it on file for fast recurring
payments which you control.

*** Note**: Allow (whitelist) intuit.com to ensure delivery of invoices and
payment receipts; or

  
**2)** MailRoute Credit Card **[Payment Link](https://billing.mailroute.net)**

  1. Use the link above for recurring payments processed by MailRoute's Billing Department
  2. If you want to pay multiple invoices enter the invoice numbers separated by a comma or put your domain name if you want the total balance paid. 
  3. If you want to pay a single invoice, enter that invoice number. 
  4. If you want to update your credit card enter your domain and the word update in the first field or just enter your domain if you don't have a balance due. 

  
**3)** Check: Remittance address is at the top of invoice

  
**4)** Wire Transfer & ACH: Contact
[billing@mailroute.net](mailto:billing@mailroute.net) for details. This
address appears in your invoice.

### **I don't want to submit a credit card over the internet. Can I call it
in?**

Yes. 1-888-485-7726 and select option 3 (Billing) to speak to a
representative. If we are unable to take your call leave a message or email us
at billing@mailroute.net and we will contact you as soon as we are available.

### **The Pay Now feature isn't available on my invoice. What do I do?**

Notify billing@mailroute.net and we will enable that option if it isn't turned
on for your account. In the meantime you can pay online and/or update your
credit card information **[here](https://billing.mailroute.net)**. Or, use one
of the other methods of payment available.

### **Can I setup a recurring payment?**

Yes, we keep your information stored securely and process payment each month.
You will receive an invoice stamped PAID monthly.

### **I'm seeing invoices from Intuit.com. Are these legitimate?**

Yes. MailRoute, Inc. and MR Compliance Solutions, Inc. use Intuit Quickbooks
Online. Our invoices have a new look with the added **Pay Now** feature.

Below is the 'From' address and the 'Subject' indicate that we are using
intuit.com to deliver our invoices from the Quickbooks Online system.

From: MailRoute, Inc. <quickbooks-email@intuit.com  
Subject: INVOICE from MailRoute, Inc. via Intuit .com

From: MR Compliance Solutions, Inc. <quickbooks-email@intuit.com>  
Subject: INVOICE from MR Compliance Solutions, Inc. via Intuit .com

© Intuit, Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy
(https://security.intuit.com/privacy/) | Security (http://security.intuit.com)
| Terms of Service
(https://connect.intuit.com/portal/app/CommerceNetwork/#termsOfService/en_US)

### **How do I change my payment method or billing cycle?**

You can update your credit card or bank transfer details via the Pay Now
option or you can submit your credit card information via
**<https://billing.mailroute.net>** and put UPDATE in the invoice field along
with your domain name, company name or invoice number. If you wish to switch
from monthly to annual or vice versa, please contact us by email or you can
call 1-888-485-7726 and select option 3 (Billing) to speak to a
representative. If we are unable to take your call leave a message or email us
at billing@mailroute.net and we will contact you as soon as we are available.

### **What if my invoice is wrong?**

Email billing@mailroute.net and let us know. We are always happy to review and
make corrections when needed. Please include the reason for correction
requests.

### **My user count is incorrect on my invoice. How can I get this
corrected?**

To avoid additional charges based on MailRoute's user count measurements, be
sure to **review your mailboxes. Delete invalid mailboxes, add missing
mailboxes and/or reassign mailboxes as aliases. Check the Distribution List
box if the mailbox is indeed a distribution list.** If your list is complete
and you have received an invoice then just submit a payment.

See **[this article](https://support.mailroute.net/hc/en-
us/articles/115000380848-Email-Accounts-List-Populating-your-account-)** in
our Help Center about managing your user list for accuracy.

Contact us when you have made changes to your list of mailboxes and we will
**RE-ISSUE** the invoice.

### **I'm missing an invoice. How can I get access to it?**

You can email billing@mailroute.net. Please provide the month or invoice
number which you are inquiring about or call 888-485-7726, press 3 to speak to
a representative. If we are unable to take your call please be sure to leave a
message and we will return your call or email you.

**I've never received my invoice. What can I do?**

Contact [billing@mailroute.net](mailto:billing@mailroute.net) or call us at
888-485-7726 Option 3 to inquire. If you have intuit.com blocked you will need
to whitelist it to receive your invoices.

### **How do I update my billing contact information?**

See **[this article](https://support.mailroute.net/hc/en-
us/articles/115000362807-Customer-Contacts-Billing-Technical-Emergency)**
about updating contact information.

### **Why can't I access my billing online?**

MailRoute is in the process of reviewing our billing system. We will post an
announcement of any future upgrades. In the meantime you can email
[billing@mailroute.net](mailto:billing@mailroute.net) or contact us at
888-485-7726 Option 3 if you need assistance with your account.

### **What happens if I don't pay in time?**

If you haven’t paid your invoice in a timely manner, we will resend your
invoice. Please review your invoices to ensure they are paid. You should see a
zero balance due if your balance is paid in full.

_Your services may be interrupted, your discount could be rescinded and
collection fees may apply._

### **Do you offer refunds?**

Not for early cancellation. Customers are free to use the service through the
end of their term or in addition to another service until their term expires.

### **How do I cancel my service?**

If you would like to cancel please submit a ticket to billing@mailroute.net.
We always appreciate any feedback you can provide. If you are having any
issues with your spam please be sure to contact support@mailroute.net first.
Support is free and we are always happy to investigate your settings to see if
we can get the service performing to your satisfaction.

If you still need to cancel, let billing@mailroute.net know your reason and
when you want to cancel by. You will need to pay any balance due to avoid
interruption of service, loss of discount and/or collections activity.

You will also need to change your mx record(s) away from mail.mailroute.net.
Once you have changed your mx records away and notify us we allow your domain
to stay active for 3 days to allow your new mx records to propagate.

We will deactivate your account and verify cancellation. As many of our
customers do, please feel free to contact us again if you wish to restart
service with us.

###

[Start a free 30-day trial today.](http://mailroute.net/signup.html)

Contact [sales@mailroute.net](mailto:sales@mailroute.net) or
[support@mailroute.net](mailto:support@mailroute.net) for more information.

888.485.7726

