---
created_at: 2013-03-06 21:49:06
date: 2018-03-19 02:46:04
description: Meet the MailRoute executive team, led by Thomas A. Johnson, the founder
  of FrontBridge (acquired by Microsoft). Learn about their expertise in email protection
  and cloud services.
draft: true
params:
  author: Unknown
summary: The article introduces the executive team of MailRoute, a company providing
  email protection services, including its founder Thomas A. Johnson, CFO Mark S.
  Tennenbaum, and VP of Sales & Marketing Rachel A. Plecas. It highlights their backgrounds
  and experience in the technology and email security industry.
tags: null
title: MailRoute Executive Team
---


### MailRoute's Executive Team

The Executive Team of MailRoute is the very same core team that created
FrontBridge Technologies, the company that Microsoft acquired in 2005 to
create it's hosted services division, variously known as Forefront, FOPE, and
Microsoft Exchange Hosted Services. This team has reunited to make MailRoute
the undisputed leader in email protection services.

* * *

#### THOMAS A. JOHNSON

**Founder, Chief Executive Officer**

Thomas A. Johnson is a leading authority on email protection, and the creator
of an early search engine and Cloud services. He is the chairman of the board
and CEO of MailRoute, Inc, headquartered in Manhattan Beach, California.

Johnson is the founder of FrontBridge, acquired by Microsoft as the foundation
of their Cloud-based MS Exchange Hosted Services, now called Forefront (FOPE).

In 1984, Johnson bought the first-generation Mac and started programming it.
(He still has his receipt for the 128K Macintosh.) This interest in computer
programming led to Johnson spending 5 years in the UCLA Computer Science
Department working for Leonard Kleinrock, the father of the Internet,
networking supercomputers and workstations.

In 1993, Johnson left UCLA to re-invent the American Medical Association’s
online community, which became US Health Link. Johnson suggested that they use
the Internet, instead of a private network, and it was here that he created
one of the first Internet search engines as well as an early Cloud
application.

“The search engine was born from a program I created that basically hopped
around the Internet grabbing information and dumping all of it into a big
Oracle database so that you could do searches,” Johnson explains. “Then I
wrote a piece of multithreaded code that could run on a few different machines
that all talked to each other; it ran like one big application, but running on
several servers,” says Johnson of his early Cloud configuration.

Johnson saw a place for Cloud services before they were called Cloud. As a
private consultant, in 1997, Johnson realized that when he was hosting
websites, which included free mailboxes, “I spent more time managing the
mailbox aspect of the business than I did the webhosting.”

Recognizing a place in the market, Johnson created a high-quality third-party
Cloud email filtering service. Launched as Big Fish, this company ultimately
became FrontBridge and was acquired by Microsoft in 2005.

MailRoute was founded in 2002 by Johnson to set new standards in email
protection services. He and his technology team have developed MailRoute's
multi-layered solution to be highly efficient, reliable, and cost-effective.
MailRoute offers email protection services to corporate, governmental, and
educational customers; it filters inbound and outbound messages through its
proprietary network of servers. The company is privately funded.

* * *

#### MARK S. TENNENBAUM

**Chief Financial Officer**

Mark S. Tennenbaum is a member of the board of directors of MailRoute, Inc and
the company’s CFO. He is also a co-founder of FrontBridge (sold to Microsoft
in 2005), the former CFO of SoftAware Networks (sold to Digital Island in
2000), and a strategic advisor to other young technology companies.

Prior to his Internet experience, Tennenbaum’s professional focus was
primarily on finance and corporate development. In these capacities he helped
to grow such diverse companies as Richard Branson’s Virgin Group, Kaiser Group
Holdings, Landmark Theatres and Craig Corporation.

Tennenbaum holds an MBA from the Anderson School at UCLA as well as a BA in
Psychology from the Pitzer College, the Claremont Colleges.

* * *

#### RACHEL A. PLECAS

**Vice President, Sales & Marketing**

Rachel A. Plecas is the VP, Sales & Marketing at MailRoute, Inc, and was the
Director of Communications at FrontBridge, where she worked with MailRoute CEO
Tom Johnson and CFO Mark Tennenbaum.

Plecas has 15 years of overseas experience, based in Hong Kong, where she was
Editor-in- Chief of Tatler Asia, a group of luxury lifestyle publications in
nine countries. She also founded What’s Next, a business development company
aimed at introducing Western retail brands into the China market.

Plecas consults for Asian Strategies, executing Asia-specific market research
for Barclays, BBC, Rolex, HP, IBM, Motorola and other multi-nationals.

Plecas holds a BA in Literature from Oakland University as well as a degree in
plant-based nutrition from Cornell University.

[Start a free 30-day trial today.](http://mailroute.net/signup.html) Use
promo-code ‘Reseller.’

Contact [sales@mailroute.net](mailto:sales@mailroute.net) or
[support@mailroute.net](mailto:support@mailroute.net) for more information.

888.485.7726

